The pregnancy test came back positive.
Congratulations.  But if tension
comes along with happiness, then doctor consultation, regular
checkups, delivery costs all together will result in a
bill of lakhs.  I have health insurance
but I don't know whether it has maternity cover or not.
Or you are already pregnant and are now
thinking about insurance.  Reality check: This is
like buying an umbrella in the rain.  So today let's
talk about maternity insurance
options.  In India, maternity-
related expenses like delivery, whether normal
or cesarean, free natal consultations and
postnatal care can run into lakhs.
Especially in big cities the costs are
even higher.  A good health insurance
plan is no longer a luxury for pregnant women but a
necessity for financial security.
But
finding health insurance for pregnant women in India can be a bit
challenging.  Especially when the woman is
already pregnant.  This is because
insurers generally impose a
waiting period of 9 months to four years and more on maternity benefits.  The
waiting period may
vary depending on the product and the insured.
Every company has its own policy.  Let us see
what are the challenges in getting maternity insurance apart from the waiting period.
Number one current market scenario.  Currently, all the
maternity
coverage plans in India have a waiting
period.  This
is the industry standard currently.
Maternity coverage is practically not available without a waiting period.
Before choosing a plan, it is important to carefully check the waiting periods,
coverage limits and included benefits.
Coverage for
existing pregnancies.  Not all insurers
cover existing pregnancies.  It
is important to understand this.  But there are some plans in
which insurance can be available till the second trimester.
This is rare but
possible.  However, some maternity expenses
and complications may be excluded for a set period.
Moreover, not every plan
provides immediate coverage for newborn babies.  Number three coverage after waiting
period.
Maternity insurance policies
provide comprehensive coverage after the waiting period is over.
Both prenatal and postnatal care are covered.
Newborn vaccinations and delivery
expenses, normal or cesarean, are also covered.
But each policy has its own
coverage level.  It
is important to understand the limits clearly.  Since we are talking about the waiting period, let me
tell you that IVP has
launched Reshore 3.0 which not only
gives you unlimited coverage but also
covers 145 pre-existing illnesses from day one.
Meaning the waiting period drama is over.
Quickly
visit www.niva.com and check the product details.
Number four pregnancy is a pre-existing
condition.  Pregnancy is usually considered a pre-
existing condition.  That's why
most insurers don't offer immediate coverage.
This is the risk management approach of insurance companies.  A
waiting period is imposed to avoid immediate claims.
Number Five Limited Stage Coverage.
Some insurers provide coverage for pregnancy up to a limited stage, such as 4
to 6 months.
That too depends
on the underwriting criteria of the insurer.
Each case is
evaluated individually.  Some insurers have
very strict underwriting depending on individual health conditions and circumstances.
Therefore, sometimes it becomes
even more difficult to get insurance.  Remember, it
is possible to get maternity insurance during pregnancy, but it becomes quite tough.
Like I said, it's like buying an umbrella in the rain.  If
the timing is missed,
the options become limited.  Before buying a policy, you should
read every condition carefully
so that you can take an informed decision.  Now we understand
that maternity insurance should not be delayed.
But what is the ideal
timing for maternity coverage?  There are
two ideal times to buy health insurance with maternity coverage.
One around marriage
and the other when starting family planning.
With early planning, the waiting period can be
completed before the actual pregnancy.  Even
if you take a maternity plan, you
cannot claim pregnancy-related expenses immediately because most
plans have a minimum waiting period of 9 months.  There are
also some benefits of taking maternity coverage early.  At least we get
time to complete the waiting period.
Plus, premium rates are better at a younger age.
Whether you are planning a pregnancy
or want to secure your family's health in the future.
Products like Nivea
bupaspire offer flexible and extensive
coverage.  You can
also get peace of mind with comprehensive protection.
Now what are its features?  This
plan offers inbuilt coverage for multiple services.
Antenatal checkups are fully
covered.  Sonograms, blood tests and other
tests required during pregnancy are
also covered.
Vaccinations for expecting mothers are also covered.
Both normal and cesarean delivery options are
covered.  Surrogacy and surrogate delivery are
also covered in modern plans.
Infertility treatment and much more are
included.  Newborn Coverage Few
insurers offer health insurance policies
that cover newborns along with maternity coverage.
Neevaspire is a product that
provides comprehensive newborn coverage.
Like Miracle Benefit.  Inbuilt Miracle Benefit is also available in
all variants of Neevapa Asire Gold Plus,
Diamond Plus, Platinum Plus, Titanium
Plus.
Covers newborns from day one of the policy for a fixed period.
That too without any extra premium.
But why does a newborn need health insurance
?  Newborns are especially
vulnerable to health issues because their
immune systems are developing.  Be
it minor illnesses like cold or
complications at the time of birth
that require immediate medical attention.
And why is insurance important for new parents
?
Getting health insurance for their newborn is
an important step for new parents.  This gives them the assurance
that
their child will be safe in case of any illness or medical emergency.  Always
remember preparation is essential.
Preparation is very important for maternity insurance.
Last minute decisions can be costly.
Coverage is not available immediately due to waiting periods.
Therefore it
is better to purchase early.  And when the time of actual pregnancy
comes, the policy remains active to provide support.
Proper planning is very important in taking conclusion maternity insurance.
Along with family planning,
financial planning is also important.
Even in insurance, choose comprehensive coverage
that covers both the mother and the newborn.
It is cost effective in the long term.
Whatever your chosen insurance is,
read and understand its waiting period and policy terms carefully.  Pregnancy is a
very important and very beautiful
journey.
Health insurance taken as per your needs will give you peace
of mind in this journey.  If needed, you can
also take professional advice.  To explore more such insurance
related information and products of Nivabba,
visit
www.nivabba.com
or call toll free number
1880030933
33 3